#labels Featured
Adding irc-api to your project is a simple process.  All what is needed is the api's jar file, and an optional logging framework pluggable into slf4j.

You can either add the API through *Maven*, which is the preferred way, or you can obtain it from the *download section* and add it to your classpath.

=Maven=

Just add the API as a dependency to your POM:

{{{
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.ircclouds.irc</groupId>
  <artifactId>irc-api</artifactId>
  <version>1.0-0011</version>
</dependency>
}}}

and optionally add a logging framework, i.e. log4j, logback, etc.  This example uses log4j:

{{{
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.slf4j</groupId>
  <artifactId>slf4j-log4j12</artifactId>
  <version>1.6.1</version>
</dependency>
}}}

Finally, a maven build should fetch all the transitive dependencies for you and add them to your project's classpath.

=Download section=

Soon will be deprecated.  You need to manually download the API's jar file, either the core one, or the one with dependencies from the download section.

If you get the core one, you still need to manually download slf4j-api.  In contrast with the dependencies one which already has it.  Optionally, you can add a slf4j logging framework by also manually fetching its dependencies from the internet.

A valid configuration of irc-api's core jar file would include the following jar files on the classpath:
<ul>
<li>irc-api-1.0-0011.jar</li>
<li>slf4j-api-1.7.2.jar</li>
<li>slf4j-log4j12-1.6.1.jar</li>
<li>log4j-1.2.16</li>
</ul>

A valid configuration of irc-api's dependencies jar file would include the following jar files on the classpath:
<ul>
<li>irc-api-1.0-0011-jar-with-dependencies.jar</li>
<li>slf4j-log4j12-1.6.1.jar</li>
<li>log4j-1.2.16</li>
</ul>